—queen Myrrah
    Queen Myrrah, also known as Subject EV-184-9, was the co-creator and Queen of the Locust Horde. The child of an Imulsion miner, Myrrah was born with a unique genetic reaction to Imulsion exposure. She was brought to the New Hope Research Facility as a subject to treat children afflicted with Rustlung and other birth defects caused by Imulsion exposure. After New Hope was shutdown by the COG, key subjects and staff were relocated to an underground laboratory in Mount Kadar by a fringe political group. Through genetic experiments led by Dr. Niles Samson, Myrrah's embryonic stem cells and Sire DNA were responsible for the creation of the Locust. In adolescence, she began a relationship with Dr. Torres and had their daughter Reyna. Myrrah was led to believe by Niles that her infant daughter was killed when Torres escaped with her. Distraught, Myrrah led the Locust to slaughter all the scientists, including Niles, and established themselves as an independent race.

ramm
    Uzil RAAM was the High General of the Locust Army. RAAM was once a Drone soldier, then a member of the Theron Guard. His skill, intellect, strength, and his loyalty to the Horde and Queen Myrrah earned him the title of head of the military leadership of the Locust Horde. RAAM led the Bloodied Vanguard with Skorge against the Lambent during the Lambent War. He was also a member of the Locust Council during the Lambent War. RAAM had a passion to wipe out all of the Lambent and Humanity, and with his intelligence and willpower, he almost succeeded.


Skorge:
    Skorge was the High Priest of the Locust Horde. He is a member of the Kantus caste of priests, sharing their tall, sinewy frame. It would seem that after RAAM's demise he took the position of the Horde's highest military leader. He wears specialized armor, studded with spikes. He also sports several dreadlocks that seem to come from his helmet (though they may be his hair or tentacles). In addition to standard Kantus priest combat equipment, he uses a formidable bow-staff with chainsaws at each end. He too is killed by Marcus Fenix, aided by Dominic Santiago. He is also seen jumping out of the ground, chainsawing a tank in half, and protecting the Queen as well as performing reconnaissance as stated by the Queen


Berserker:
    Berserkers are the females of the Locust. They are much larger and stronger than their male counterparts, but evidently feral and blind. Berserkers are easily angered and will kill Human and Locust alike with their bare hands. They are effectively bulletproof, but intensely vulnerable to high temperatures. Incendiary weapons, whether a Scorcher Flamethrower or even the Hammer of Dawn, will severely soften a Berserker's armoured hide, rendering her far more vulnerable to other weaponry.


Boomer:
    Boomers are large, barely intelligent Locusts that are often given the 'Boomshot' grenade launcher. They are often seen partnered with other Boomers, but they do not use infantry tactics, instead they move forward slowly and fire their weapons. To combat this tactic, many Gears have noted that an easy way to defeat a Boomer is to stay behind cover and bring them down with automatic fire. Boomers mainly can be heard laughing and saying "Boom!" before they fire.


Drone:
    Drones appear to be the common race among the Locust Horde. They are larger than humans and have chalky white skin with gray, scale-like patches that most likely are hardened to protect them from minor damage. Sniper Drones often wear goggles for increased accuracy. They were bred in the Hollow to be bloodthirsty fighters. When ordered, Drones will throw their lives away by the hundreds to kill one Gear. They often crawl out of "emergence holes," which the Locust use as a bridge between underground and the surface world. Drones follow basic infantry tactics of flanking, dominating the terrain, and setting up ambushes. Almost fearless, they know little in the way of self-preservation and rarely retreat. They will usually wield the Hammerburst assault rifle. While some regular Drones have taken to using the human Lancer assault rifle, (Dubbed Cyclops for the headgear they normally wear in tandem with wielding the Lancer) and will use the chainsaw bayonet. Most basic drones wear a helmet and body armor while Grenadiers mainly go into battle armorless except for shoulder plates. Aside from standard drones, there are eight variants that are basically the same creature:


Theron Guard:     
    Theron Guards serve as the elite of the Locust Horde. Easily identified by their sibilant voices and ornate full-body armour. Therons are stronger, faster, and excessively more intelligent than an average drone. They usually wield Torque Bows. They are also the only known locust race to carry and use more than one weapon at any one time. It is unclear if there is a ranking structure among the Therons, although General Raam was once himself a Theron Guard. During the evacuation of Illima city, an individual Elite Theron served as Raam's lieutenant. Queen Myrrah also had a personal batallion of specialist Therons known as the Queen's Guard.


Corpser:    
    Corpsers appear as horrific giant spider-like monsters covered by a mysterious armored helmet. Their heads appear almost humanoid except for their insect like eyes. Corpsers have eight thick rock camouflaged legs that guard their vulnerable underbellies, which is the only exposed part of one's body besides their mouth. The Locust Horde uses Corpsers to dig tunnels through the soil of Sera, allowing the other members of Locust to move about undetected, and even allows the Horde to dig behind COG lines. Corpsers are often seen moments before Locust attacks, and they are often symbolized leading the Locusts out of the ground on Emergence Day. The Jacinto Plateau, which is positioned on a huge slab of granite and marble, it is the only place on Sera that the Horde can not dig through quickly which made it suitable for the COG's main Headquarters. Interestingly, infant and adolescent Corpsers tend to have half as many arms as their adult counterparts, implying that Corpsers grow additional arms as they age.


Brumak:
    Brumaks are huge monsters with extraordinarily thick hides. They often grow to 12 meters in height and tend to weigh around 10,000 kilograms (22,046 lbs). They were apparently bred by the Locust Horde from smaller native apes. Brumaks are lethal at close range, and they have also been rumored to carry energy beam cannons to kill at a range. Their head-gear resemble the Corpser's helmet, but their bodies have more in common with humanoids than spiders. Brumaks appear to be a form of a sentient being, and can carry weapons on their back for attack.
    

Gears 1:
    Gears of War takes place on the planet Sera. A liquid called Imulsion became a highly valued power source after a scientist discovered how to use it, and the economic shockwave led to several wars between nations. The Coalition of Ordered Governments (COG) originally existed only as an obscure world-government philosophy, but it evolved into a legitimate, though minor, political party during the 79-year-long Pendulum Wars. The soldiers of the COG are called "Gears". After "Emergence Day" (E-Day), when the Locust began their attack on humanity, the COG were the ones who took the necessary steps to ensure the survival of human civilization, instituting martial law and taking charge of the effort against the Locust. Fourteen years later, the COG is the only human government left on Sera. One year after E-Day, after losing multiple military battles to the Locust, the COG launched a Pyrrhic tactical and strategic campaign using the satellite-based weapon of mass destruction known as the "Hammer of Dawn" on human cities with extremely destructive results. The result gave the citizens of Sera three days to evacuate to the Jacinto Plateau, the only place Locust could not dig through, before going through with the attack.[4]

    The game's plot begins 14 years after Emergence Day (E-Day), when the Locust Horde overran and killed many COG soldiers and civilians, declaring war against humanity.[4] Marcus Fenix, a former COG soldier, is reinstated into the military after spending four years in prison for deserting his military post in order to make a vain attempt to save his father, Adam Fenix. Dominic "Dom" Santiago, Marcus' best friend and fellow COG, successfully extracts Fenix from the prison, and takes him to meet Delta Squad.[8] The group seeks to obtain the "resonator", a device that will map "The Hollow", the caverns which the Locust inhabit[8][9] and later deploy the "Lightmass Bomb", which will destroy the heart of the Locust forces inside the Hollow. Fenix and his allies recover the device, but suffer multiple casualties in the process including Anthony Carmine and Squad leader Kim. Fleeing RAAM's forces, Fenix leads the remaining soldiers through the ruins of Ephyra to claim a "Junker" APC, drive to a mining facility, and finally into the planet's depths.[4][8]

    Delta Squad successfully detonates the resonator, but the device fails to map enough of the tunnel network. They discover a larger map of the network that originates from Fenix's old home, specifically his father's laboratory.[8] The group ventures to the Fenix estate at East Barricade Academy, where Fenix originally attempted to rescue his father. When they arrive, Delta encounters heavy Locust resistance. After collecting the data, the group fights their way past Locust forces and boards a train carrying the Lightmass Bomb. Fenix and Santiago battle their way through the train, and are able to kill General RAAM, before uploading the data. Fully activated, the Lightmass Bomb launches into the Hollow, and eradicates the Locust tunnel networks.[8] In the game's final sequence, Hoffman delivers a victory speech as the tunnels collapse and explode, whereupon the voice of the Locust Queen promises that the Locust will continue to fight onward, despite their losses.


Gears 2:
    Gears of War 2 takes place six months after the detonation of the Lightmass Bomb at the end of the first game. Though most of the underground army of the Locust Horde was destroyed, the explosion also caused much of the liquid Imulsion underground to vaporize, causing a fatal disease called Rustlung to spread among the diminished human population. After months of peace, the cities of Tollen and Montevado suddenly and mysteriously disappear underground, leading the Coalition of Ordered Governments (COG) to suspect the resurgence of the Locust.[13] Soon after, the once impenetrable Jacinto, one of the last remaining safe havens for humans, begins to show signs that the same fate awaits it. To stop the fall of Jacinto, the COG responds with a large-scale counter-offensive against the Locust.[1][13] Senior Producer Rod Fergusson says "In order to save Jacinto, [the COG] have no choice but to take the war to the Locust."[1]

    the COG army mobilizes forces to deploy into the depths of Sera, known as the "Hollow", to assault the Locust directly. Delta Squad, consisting of Marcus Fenix, Dom Santiago, Benjamin Carmine, Tai Kaliso, Augustus Cole and Damon Baird; fight the Locust alongside thousands of Gears. During the battle, Tai is taken prisoner by Locust general Skorge and is tortured to the point of insanity, resulting in him committing suicide after being freed by Delta. They discover that the Locust are using a giant Riftworm to sink the human cities. The Locust plan to destroy the rock structures in the outskirts of Jacinto, the last major human city, in hopes of sinking it underground. Delta kills the Riftworm from within before it can sink Jacinto, but they lose Carmine in the process.

    After returning to the surface, Colonel Hoffman admits the COG failed in locating the Locust stronghold. Chairman Prescott declassifies an intel file that reveals a nearby abandoned COG outpost that has a lead on the location of the Locust capital and their queen. Delta is ordered to investigate. Inside, Delta learns that the outpost is "New Hope", a genetics lab dedicated to studying human children of Imulsion miners suffering from Rustlung, resulting in mutated experiments called "Sires". Delta finds that the scientists relocated to the nearby caverns of Mount Kadar to continue their research. As Delta infiltrates Mount Kadar to infiltrate the Locust stronghold, Dom gets a lead on his missing wife, Maria, located at a nearby prison camp. Dom finds Maria in a vegetative state due to the aggressive and invasive torture techniques of the Locust. Dom euthanizes Maria and continues on the mission.

    Delta locates Locust capital, Nexus, and sets off the beacon to initiate the second wave. The COG sees the Locust have been facing an epidemic against the "Lambent", Locust who have been exposed to Imulsion, and have been forcing the Locust out of the Hollow and onto the surface. Locust Queen Myrrah, who appears human, reveals to Marcus that the Locust are trying to sink Jacinto based on a proposal by Adam Fenix, his father, that the surrounding seawater could flood the Hollow and drown the Lambent. After a battle where they succeed in killing Skorge, but failing to kill Myrrah, Marcus decides to destroy both the Locust and Lambent forces by sinking Jacinto themselves before the Locust can evacuate. Jacinto is sunk by the COG and seawater floods into the crater, destroying the remaining Locust forces. After the credits, the voice of Adam Fenix is heard on a radio transmission, revealing he is still alive.[4][17]

Gear 3:
    Gears of War 3 takes place two years after Jacinto, humanity's last stronghold, is destroyed in an effort to completely eradicate the Locust Horde. The Coalition of Ordered Governments (COG) remnants relocate to Vectes, a secluded island, in order to rebuild their civilization. The COG then disbands after Chairman Prescott mysteriously disappears and seemingly abandons his forces. A new foe, the Lambent, are threatening humanity's dwindling numbers. As the Lambent begin to invade Vectes, Marcus Fenix and his comrades retreat to the CNV Sovereign, a helicopter carrier, and take refuge at sea, whilst Hoffman leads other survivors back to the mainland to find haven at Anvil Gate. Delta Squad now consists of Marcus Fenix, Dominic 'Dom' Santiago, Anya Stroud, Damon Baird, Augustus 'Cole Train' Cole, Jace Stratton, Clayton Carmine and Samantha 'Sam' Byrne. Upon arriving at Anvil Gate, Marcus and his comrades assist Hoffman's soldiers in repelling a combined Lambent and Locust assault.

    Upon further analysis of the disc's content, Marcus learns that Azura is protected by man-made hurricane generators, making the island only accessible by submarine. Marcus and his comrades, joined by old friend Dizzy Wallin, successfully find a submarine but require Imulsion to fuel it. Dom suggests they first venture to an abandoned town called Mercy, where they discover that humans are becoming Lambent.[5] During extraction, the Gears are nearly overrun by Locust and Lambent; Dom sacrifices himself to create an explosion that wipes out the hostile forces.[6] Demoralized, they are forced to continue their search for fuel in the city of Char after their truck runs out of fuel.[7] The ruined city is inhabited by several Stranded civilians who are led by Griffin (voiced by Ice-T). Despite his dislike for the COG and Gears, Griffin reluctantly tasks Marcus to recover a supply of Imulsion.[8] After acquiring the fuel they are attacked by the Locust Horde, led by Queen Myrrah. Griffin's forces sustain heavy casualties in the ensuing battle, but the Gears are ultimately able to escape and reach the shipyards where they have to fight the Locust as they repair and fuel their submarine.[9]

    Marcus' group finally arrives at Azura, discovering that it is a sanctuary and resort for Sera's most elite and powerful individuals.[10] Adam contacts the Gears and reveals he is being held captive atop Azura's main hotel tower.[11] Marcus's group battles through waves of hostiles before finding his father. Adam quickly explains that he has created a device capable of eradicating all Lambent and Locust life forms on Sera. Adam had worked with Myrrah before to try to tune the wave so that only Lambent would be affected, but with the Imulsion, revealed to be a parasitic lifeform, now infecting humans, Adam ran out of time, infuriating Myrrah.[11][12] Marcus and his comrades defend Adam from the Locust and Lambent, and from an attack by Myrrah. Adam reveals that he had to infect himself with Lambent cells in order to test his machine. As the machine begins to pulsate with energy, Adam bids his son farewell before the device kills him. Myrrah rises from the rubble and begins insulting Adam. Marcus fatally stabs Myrrah with Dom's commando knife he got back in Mercy.[13] Shortly afterwards, the machine emits a blue wave of energy that sweeps across Sera, destroying the Lambent and Imulsion, and seemingly wiping out the Locust. The scene transitions back to Marcus, who is mournfully wondering what humanity has left. He is comforted by Anya, who assures Marcus that the sacrifices of Adam, Dom, and their comrades have guaranteed humanity a future.[9]

Home:
    Emergence Day, otherwise known as E-Day, was a swift, full-scale, coordinated, and unprecedented planet-wide assault on the surface of Sera initiated by the subterranean race of the Locust Horde. Six weeks after the end of the Pendulum Wars, nearly every major city on the surface of Sera was attacked by the underground forces from the Hollow, using both bio-engineered weapons and stolen human technology. All breaches were along the ground line, known as emergence holes, in what was a campaign of rapid dominance in a textbook military invasion. There were massive casualties reported everywhere the Locust arrived. Over a quarter of the total human population was killed within the first twenty-six hours, and millions reported missing. The attacks signaled the beginning of the Locust War.

    The goal of the Locust Horde was to exterminate the human race, allowing them to colonize the surface in order to escape the Lambent, an Imulsion-based infection that was spreading in the Hollow. In the immediate aftermath of the attacks, the COG responded by countering the Locust invasion with its entire military arsenal. The Locust Horde was able to deploy huge numbers of their forces into major cities on the surface at once. They were able to defeat all organized human resistance for over a year[4] and had used the spoils of war to gather all available military and civilian technological equipment, and resources, to use against the COG and the few UIR nations that remained after the Pendulum Wars.[6][7] The Locust Horde's onslaught and assault continued for a year until the Hammer of Dawn Strikes, in which the Hammer of Dawn technology was deployed on Locust-infested areas under the newly elected Chairman Richard Prescott.[8]

    The attacks were conceived by Queen Myrrah, who first presented it to Professor Adam Fenix in 5 B.E. At that time, Myrrah did not want to attack the humans due to sending her army into another war and, despite her hatred, the little sympathy she had for humans. However, she saw it as necessary in order to escape the Lambent, and not believing the humans would help in their aid, nor ever accept them.

marcus:
    Sergeant Marcus Michael Fenix (COG tags CSID 293982-3932F-A1)[4] ES is a Gear in the COG Army. Marcus served with distinction in the Pendulum Wars and Locust War, which earned him the Embry Star, the COG's highest military award, for his actions during the Battle of Aspho Fields. Following the Locust Horde invasion on Emergence Day, Marcus defended key cities during the Emergence in Kalona and Destruction of Halvo Bay. In 10 A.E., Marcus was court martialed for dereliction of duty during the Fall of Ephyra, in which the Locust invaded and occupied Ephyra. Marcus abandoned his post to save his father, Professor Adam Fenix, after receiving a distress message. Marcus failed to rescue his father and the Locust took Ephyra - forcing the COG to relocate to Jacinto City. Marcus was sentenced to forty years at the Jacinto Maximum Security Prison.

dom:
    Corporal Dominic "Dom" Santiago ES was a Gear in the COG Army during the Pendulum Wars, Locust War, Stranded Insurgency, and Lambent Pandemic. He was the younger brother of Carlos Santiago and childhood friend of Marcus Fenix, both war heroes of the Pendulum Wars. Santiago joined the army as a Commando and took part in Operation Leveler to obtain schematics for the Hammer of Dawn, which would later guarantee victory for the COG but resulted in the death of his brother Carlos. On Emergence Day, Santiago lost both his children. His wife, Maria Santiago, developed PTSD and went missing.

anya:
    First Minister Anya Stroud was the 1st First Minister of the reestablished Coalition of Ordered Governments and a retired officer in the COG Army during the Pendulum Wars and Locust War. Daughter of Major Helena Stroud, Anya joined the COG army to follow in her mother’s footsteps. Unlike her mother, she did not serve as a front-line Gear until 14 A.E. Instead, she became a communications officer and served in her mother's unit during the Pendulum Wars. There, she met fellow soldier and future husband, Marcus Fenix. In 2 B.E., Stroud took part in the Battle of Aspho Fields, during which she witnessed the death of her mother. Anya continued to serve as a controller in the CIC during the Locust War. She was in participation of the Hammer of Dawn Strikes, in which Chairman Richard Prescott scorched 90 of Sera's surface outside the Jacinto Plateau to stop the Locust in 1 A.E.

baird:
    Corporal Damon S. Baird (COG tags CSID 06059-81111-96)[5] is a Gear of the Coalition of Ordered Governments Army and an expert in several technical, mechanical, and scientific fields. He also appears to be an expert in collecting and analyzing Locust weapons, other equipment, artifacts and documents.[6] He joined the COG Army on Emergence Day, and soon after met Augustus Cole, who became his best friend. Fourteen years later, he was a member of Alpha Squad during the Lightmass Offensive, but joined Delta Squad along with Cole after the rest of the squad was killed. After the successful conclusion to the offensive, he was assigned to lead Sigma-One with Cole, taking part in several battles against the Locust. During Operation: Hollow Storm, he once again rejoined Delta, and fought through the campaign to sink Jacinto. He joined the rest of the COG in its evacuation to Port Farrall and later Vectes, where the COG was forced to deal with the Stranded Insurgency, and later the Lambent Pandemic, during which Baird was often on the front lines helping formulate plans with the rest of Delta and Command. When the COG collapsed, Baird joined the rest of Delta aboard the CNV Sovereign as part of the rapid response force that would assist several settlements the remnants of the COG had set up on the mainland.

cole:
Private Augustus "Cole Train" Cole, also known as Gus or his Thrashball nickname "Cole Train",[2][3] is a Gear in the COG Army and a former Thrashball player. Best known for playing with the Hanover Cougars as defensive lineman, Cole later joined the army as a Gear after his parents were killed by the Locust Horde on Emergence Day. His announcement of retiring from Thrashball and joining the war effort caused a massive spike in enlistments. During the majority of the Locust War, Cole fought alongside Cpl. Damon Baird. Cole rejected every military promotion that had been offered under the grounds that having rank was not going to affect how many Locust he could kill.[4] As part of Delta-One, Cole became part of the most reliable squad of Gears available to the COG, fighting on the frontlines of every major operation near the end of the Locust War, and continued fighting for the COG as part of Delta after the relocation to Vectes, fighting Stranded Insurgents, the new threat of the Lambent Pandemic and the rise of the Swarm.

a carmine:
Private Anthony Carmine was a Gear soldier in the Coalition of Ordered Governments army and a member of Delta Squad. He was a member of the Carmine Family and the brother of Benjamin Carmine, Clayton Carmine, and an unnamed fourth brother. In 14 A.E., Anthony was part of the mission to find and deploy the Resonator during Lightmass Offensive. He was killed just outside the House of Sovereigns by a Locust Sniper and was remembered as a hero by his family.

b carmine:
Private Benjamin Carmine (COG tags CSID 83B186-22AO3-SF), or Rook by his squad mates and Squirt by his brothers, was the brother of Anthony Carmine, Clayton Carmine, and an unidentified Carmine. He served as a Gear soldier in the Coalition of Ordered Governments army and joined Delta Squad, which had previously been Anthony's squad, after completing his training, and was further trained by Sgt. Marcus Fenix and Cpl. Dominic Santiago. He fought in the opening stages of Operation: Hollow Storm, until his tragic death inside the Riftworm.

c carmine:
Chief Sergeant Clayton "Clay" Carmine, also called Grub Killer by his fellow Gears, and Sarge by his trainees is one of the four Carmine brothers and a Gear in the Coalition of Ordered Governments army. Holding the rank of Private throughout the Locust War and the Lambent Pandemic , Clay is the oldest brother in the Carmine family, he is an experienced and veteran Gear; unfortunately, he is also one of only two surviving brothers of the Carmine Family. Like Dominic Santiago, the war with the Locust was extremely personal for Clay because of the losses his family have suffered. He bears a deep grudge with every Locust, Lambent or not. Clay continued fighting in the last days of both conflicts alongside Delta-One and lived to see their victory. While most of his comrades in Delta-One had chosen to retire from the military sometime after the war, Clay chose to remain in the army under the reconstituted COG. Rising to the rank of Chief Sergeant, Clay went on to become a training instructor for officer cadets and trained James Dominic Fenix (the son of his old comrade Marcus Fenix) and his friend Delmont Walker. Clayton soon returned to action during Swarm Invasion and assisted in the Evacuation of Settlement 2 along with the rest of Delta Squad and his niece by leading a unit of DeeBees to defend evacuees, although his niece Corporal Elizabeth Carmine was accidently killed by a Hammer Strike. He later fought in the Battle of Old Ephyra and helped to deploy targeting beacons for the newly activated Hammer of Dawn satellites and later helped to kill the Swarm controlled creature known as the Kraken.

hoffman:
Colonel Victor Hoffman ES[4] SM was a Gear officer and the Chief of Defense Staff of the Coalition of Ordered Governments during the Pendulum Wars and Locust War, and former Director of Special Forces, answering only to Chairman Richard Prescott. Hoffman hated being promoted so high, preferring to remain a frontline Gear. He is a battlefield commander, and has fought alongside his fellow Gears in the Pendulum Wars, the Locust War, and the Lambent Pandemic. A military man to the core, Hoffman demands discipline and sacrifice from those under his command. Hoffman's strict adherence to these ideals has caused him to cross swords with fellow Gear, Marcus Fenix. He made his reputation with the Siege of Anvil Gate, and later further increased it with the Battle of Aspho Fields.

lancer:
The Mark 3 Lancer Assault Rifle was the third generation Lancer assault rifle that replaced the Mark 2 model as the standard issue rifle of the Coalition of Ordered Governments Army after its introduction in 42 A.E. Unlike the Mark 2, which required a complete redesign of the Mark 1, the Mark 3 is simply considered as an upgrade compared to its predecessor.

Gnasher:
As the COG's standard-issue shotgun, the Gnasher fired 12-gauge buckshot rounds, spraying nine pellets of shot per shell in a cone. Because of its wide spread and high power, the Gnasher was not particularly difficult to aim and was often capable of taking down man-sized targets in a single shot. The Gnasher also has decent range for a shotgun, capable of inflicting (albeit minimal) harm to targets up to 8 meters away.[2]

Boom shot:
The Boomshot fires a delayed-fuse, high-explosive shell that creates a large explosion upon impact, followed by the detonation of about three to five small "bomblets" that create a series of secondary explosions which are comparable to a cluster bomb. The shell is loaded into the Boomshot via a drum magazine. When fired, the shell emerges from the main barrel and the guiding fins ride along the four tubes that surround it. While Boomers are exclusively equipped with the Boomshot, Drones and Gears are also capable of wielding it.

Boltok pistol:
The Boltok is a high-caliber, double-action revolver with a 6-round capacity, a side swing chamber, and an enclosed hammer. It is heavier, slower to fire, and holds half as much ammunition as the COG-issue Snub Pistol, but does unequivocally more damage per shot and has exceptional stopping power. The Boltok fires significantly slower than the Snub, but it packs an incredible amount of power. A single shot from the Boltok was capable of decapitating a target, a testament to its stopping power.

Snub Pistol:
The Snub Pistol was used by the COG military for years, and its reliability was proven many times on the battlefield. It continues to be the standard issue sidearm of Gear soldiers after decades of service. During the Pendulum Wars and later during the Locust War, the Snub Pistol was part of general weapons kit most front line Gears were issued along with Lancer Assault Rifle and the Gnasher Shotgun. It was also carried by many COG officials; even Chairman Prescott carried one as his chosen sidearm.[3]

Hammerburst:
Regarded as the Locust counterpart to the COG Retro Lancer, the Hammerburst has a 6-round burst fire mode and a 78-round magazine. The Hammerburst features a relatively short barrel and compact size, and excels in medium to long-range combat, as the burst fire can be fired from distances close enough to hit and far enough to not be seen, while tracking targets before they get to cover.

Longshot:
The origins of the Longshot Sniper Rifle dated back to the Pendulum Wars, manufactured by the COG for its Gears to counter the UIR GZ18 Markza. With the Gnasher Shotgun and Lancer Assault Rifle providing closer ranged firepower, the Longshot allowed Gears to metaphorically "reach out and touch someone". With its competent scope, long barrel, and precise but powerful ballistics, the Longshot shifted the rules of combat drastically, allowing a skilled sniper to remain uninjured or even unseen during firefights.

Torquebow:
The Torque Bow fires an Imulsion-fueled; explosive-tipped, armor-piercing projectile that resembles a large arrow (or rather, a large crossbow bolt). The projectile has a timed fuse which is designed to explode a half-second after penetrating a target, blasting it apart from the inside — almost invariably causing critical injury for the unfortunate target (if not instantaneous death). The weapon's name comes from its unique tandem launch system; in addition to the magnetic coils giving the projectile motive force, the Torque Bow also uses a small motor to apply rotational force to the projectile - ergo increasing kinetic energy transferred to the target. The limbs on the top and bottom of the barrel control the tension of the motor, and are what actually launches the bolt through the coil mechanism.



